okey-dokey hello everybody my name is J
I'm one of the expert IELTS teachers
here at e to language in this live class
I'm going to give you eight top tips to
score eight plus okay yes I should know
how to do this let me tell you a little
story the story is this I got stuck on
7.5 in IELTS writing three times before
I managed to then get 8.5 on my fourth
attempt I could get 9 on reading
listening and speaking well not with no
problem that was certainly difficult in
itself but I got stuck on 7.5 for
writing it was incredibly frustrating
until I did some research about how the
examiners mark you in your I answer what
this live class is going to be about is
about what you need to do to satisfy the
examiners you need to know what they're
looking for in your writing ok so let's
go through and do that and hopefully
will boost your band score significantly
before we do that though if you're on
YouTube live and you're not a subscriber
please click the subscribe button I
think as of today we're about 97
thousand we want to reach 100,000
subscribers and click like if you like
this video ok so these are these crazy
these crazy matrix is what the IELTS
examiner's look at when they're marking
your writing you can see on the left
hand side there the band scores from
band 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 and 0 right and
so they look at these things they look
at four things when they're marking your
writing we're going to go through them
in this live class and I'm going to give
you top tips on each of them okay so the
first one's called task achievement let
me show you how to get plus 8 or 8 and
above in task achievement task
achievement in short means that you when
you describe your graph you're
describing relevant features okay you're
describing relevant features that's how
you get a high score for task
achievement
easier said than done let me show you
what you need to do so here's the graph
I'm going to give you 30 seconds to
analyze this graph
okay so we want to describe key features
the first step is to actually understand
what you're looking at and I think that
is a step that most people fail to do
they start writing before they fully
understood this graph so let's break
down this graph what you want to do when
you're looking at the graph is notice
the indicators the legend here so we're
talking about men in this left-hand part
of the graph we're talking about males
in the right-hand part divided by this
little line here we're talking about
females okay males here
females there cool all right now that we
know that division let's look at what
the gray versus the black is so the
black this represents full-time
education so this these three a
full-time education for males well these
three are full-time education for
females similarly these are part-time
education for males these indicate
part-time education for females okay
then you want to understand the y-axis
so it's number of men and women in
further education in thousands two
hundred thousand four hundred thousand
etc up to a million 1.2 million then you
want to go one step further so you've
identified the important aspects now you
need to well if you're going to describe
relevant features of this graph you need
to understand what's going on so let's
look at males in full-time education so
you can see there's a slight increase a
consistent increase what about females
in full-time education we can see
there's a quite a jump here and then
it's sort of tapers off what about males
in part-time education well it
fluctuates what about females in
part-time education well it's quite a
consistent rise there okay these are the
key features and what also you might
note is that well personally I think
this jump here is
significant and I think this jump here
is significant and I think the males one
is sort of not that interesting so now
that we've analyzed this we can start to
break it down of course the first thing
you want to do is take the graph
description that's written for you and
you want to rewrite it into your own
words so let's read this it says the
chart below shows the number of men and
women in further education in Britain in
three periods and whether they were
studying full-time or part-time so
here's mine and I want you to read this
I'll give you 30 seconds and ask
yourself do these two say the exact same
thing
the answer is yes let's go through it
step by step so the original said the
chart below shows I said the bar chart
illustrates same thing different words
the number of men and women in further
education in Britain the number of males
and females engaged in further education
in Britain they said in three periods
and whether they were studying full time
or part night part time I said it shows
whether they were studying full time or
part time and it's divided into three
periods so these two have been written
exactly the same using different words
therefore my task achievement whether
I'm describing the graph accurately is
so far above 1/8 which is a good thing
now I'm going to move on and write the
rest of it but I have forgotten what the
next slide is to do I'm not going to go
through this actually I'm just gonna
leave that on the screen for a second
because what we'll do is we'll read this
as we go throughout the presentation ok
but if you do want to pause this and
read my description these are the three
body paragraphs you certainly can but on
Tuesday there are two tips for task
achievements first tip is this you need
to spend at least a minute understanding
the graph don't just start writing
without understanding the graph break it
down piece by piece look at the the
details of the graph like the legend the
y-axis the titles the subtitles for
example then look at the graph in more
detail and look at the the trends the
UPS the Downs the fluctuations the Rises
the the Falls etc and more specifically
what you need to do there is you need to
find and look for the most noticeable
features if something went jumped like
that or something drops significantly
maybe they're quite similar but maybe
there are two main features you will
need to describe those two main features
in your description number to describe
key
features only don't describe boring
features you just want to describe the
key features only cool let's look at the
second band or the second criterion that
you're greater on scored coherence and
cohesion but we're not going to call it
that we're going to call it structure
and flow so this is the second thing
that the IELTS examiner's grade you on
and what do you need to do to get eight
plus let's look at structure first okay
look at structure first then we'll look
at flow so the structure will the first
paragraph well or it could be a single
sentence is the graph description and
that's the one I just showed you and
that's copied from the original one it
needs to say the exact same thing in
different words so in effect you're
paraphrasing it then you'll have your
overview paragraph where you look at
those main trends and you look at the
key differences between men and women or
you look at the key differences between
part-time study and full-time study for
example and you don't want to go into
detail here you don't want to use
numbers from the y-axis because in the
next paragraph you start to drill deeper
and what I did for example is my third
paragraph here I talked about full-time
education the key features and I
describe them with numbers you can start
to see the numbers in my paragraphs here
here you can see a year that's fine but
here you can start to see numbers from
the y-axis right now in my fourth
paragraph I'll talk about part-time
education the key features of part-time
education comparing men and women and
I'll also again use numbers so again you
can see here I've used numbers like 1
million nine hundred thousand eight
hundred thousand etc I've also used the
years as well ok so that's the structure
now is there a set structure should use
300s use three or always use four well
it depends on what you're looking at and
it depends on the decision that the
decisions you make
you're analyzing your graph right
because you look at it and you say ok
there's men there's women
there's part-time education there's
full-time education and you ask yourself
how am I going to divide this up what am
I going to do here
so the key tip here is on test a plan
your structure before you write ok just
on the on the on the graph itself on
that booklet where you see the graph you
can draw up a little plan ok think of
your plan before you write because if
you start writing before you have
planned you will end in disaster
well it's not going to be too bad but
you want to take this test once and once
only so let's look at the second part
here which is flow okay so we've looked
at structure let's look at flow
structure means structure means the
overall structure like how many
paragraphs etc the sort of introductory
paragraph the body paragraphs no
conclusion by the way you're not
concluding and I think you conclude in
an essay this is a description only so
no conclusions floor means how within
those paragraphs the sentences are
connected and how the ideas join and
connect and flow from one to the next
ok so let's look at this because you're
also graded on this so here you can see
the subject the bar chart and then you
can see the pronoun it now in the IELTS
they look at your ability to use
pronouns to change a noun phrase into a
pronoun for example males and females
become they okay so that's one part of
flow changing nouns to pronouns that's
pretty straightforward
ok here we've done it again we've talked
about the number of men and women and
then we've used those all those studying
full-time in other words men and women
ok here we start to make complex
sentences using while there was
especially in when this is just these
are rather examples of how you
use words to create flow within the
sentence so the sentence isn't going
it's going
[Music]
that's what you want to do let's look at
some other way I know that's not a very
technical explanation but trust me you
probably don't want a technical
explanation with regards to male
students Dada for women rising sharply
and then so you can see how I'm creating
flow by using various words in here the
number of males fluctuated dropping from
two women increased from two in so let's
look at these green ones here because
these are prepositions so from - from -
in year you can start to see how that
how that that flow is being created by
the use of prepositions here you can
also see that this whole paragraph is in
fact one single sentence being
coordinated by this word meanwhile so
it's like a seesaw I don't know if when
your kid used to go on the seesaw right
you'd have the two people here sorry
that person looks a bit weird so does
this one but you have the seesaw and
this word here is acting like the
fulcrum of the seesaw it's balancing
that sentence out so that's the sort of
thing that you want to do so on Tuesday
tip number four is to consider your
sentence before you write it the problem
with handwriting so if you're taking the
paper-based IELTS is there's no
backspace key and there's also no Mouse
we can insert something so the way to
get around this is to think of your
sentence before you write it again don't
just start writing and go oh that
doesn't make sense that's a terrible
sentence that it's really clunky so what
you need to do is go okay to say the
sentence in your mind okay the number of
males in part-time study flood
tweeted over the period while the number
of females remained steady ok great got
it then you write it down okay so again
tip number four is to consider your
sentence before you write it to make
sure your flow is good let's look at the
third criterion this is a third thing
that the IELTS examiner's look at while
they're marking your writing okay they
have this matrix in front of them
lexical resource just means a vocabulary
so let's look at the top tips to get
eight plus but what we're going to do in
fact is break it down into two parts
because there's vocabulary range and
there's vocabulary precision so they
look at two aspects of the way you use
words let's look at range first so there
are a number of problems with this
description let me point them out to you
this would get you like a in IELTS 5 or
possibly even at an IELTS for the bar
chart the bar chart the bar chart the
number of males and females the males
and females the number of males and
females males and females male goggle
you can see that being repeated numerous
times look in the first paragraph look
at the verbs shows shows look in the
second paragraph outnumbered outnumbered
and look at the rest of these verbs
increased increased increased increased
increased so on test day if you're
repeating a word you need to think of a
synonym ok so that refers to range
that's the breadth or how many words in
English you know so you want to show off
a little bit you want to use a range of
different verbs so synonyms ok so for
example if you had the verb shows the
graph shows well the graph illustrates
is a nice way to do that or you could
even say the graph depicts ok but here's
where you need to be careful and that
leads us on to the next part which is
precision so here's how you can ape
for precision let me read you this
unbelievably confusing yet very common
piece of writing or a piece of writing
that people do this all the time
the bar chart elucidates the sheer
number of men and females seized in
further education in Britain it shows
whether they were scholarly full-time or
part-time and it's divided into three
epochs does that sound impressive to you
does that sound good does that sound
precise to me that is what is
technically known as gobbledygook
that's what Turkey's that's what they
took you say it doesn't make any sense
okay
the beautiful words elucidate scholarly
epochs but they're used incorrectly they
used imprecisely
so there's a little key here Oh before I
do that this is what the difference is
here we have a horse right this is a
horse and a horse has short ears small
round eyes of a long face right here we
have a donkey don't he has long ears
darkened at the edges wide eyes in a
short face and here we have a mule mule
has wide eyes a long face in a large
muzzle when you are using words
incorrectly so instead of saying time
periods for example and you write epochs
well in this context it's it's it's it's
like mistaking a horse from a donkey or
a donkey from a mule okay so you need to
be careful with the words you choose
because the words have specific meanings
and you want to make sure that you're
precise with what you say because the
IELTS examiner and doesn't matter how
beautiful and fancy that word is if its
imprecise you'll be marked down so the
key to this one is on test day only use
words you know are 100% precise okay in
other words don't use words you don't
know completely cool bananas let's look
at the last criterion that the IELTS
Examiners mark you on it's called
grammatical range and accuracy and again
it has two parts so it's about grammar
this time but there are two parts and
this is the one that used to get me this
is the one that I think brought down my
mark 27.5 that's why I got stuck because
my grandma is well I
I won't take perfect because it is
possible that to make little mistakes
here and there but pretty good I really
understand grammar and I like grammar
and I'm very confident in the way that I
write etc that's accuracy that's not
range range is just as critically almost
more important than accuracy okay range
again refers to the variety of sentence
structures that you can create okay so
let's look at some bad examples of
grammatical range the bar chart shows
the number of males and females studying
in Britain the bar chart also
illustrates where the males and females
for studying full-time or part-time the
bar chart finally depicts three periods
there are more men studying part-time
than women there are there are da da da
the number of men increased the number
of women decreased the number of people
fluctuated so basically here I've used
three sentence types I've used a simple
prison verb shows illustrates and
depicts okay so I've just used a simple
prison here I've used there are there
are there are three times and then I've
used the number increased the number
decreased the number fluctuated with a
past tense verb okay so I'm not don't
get me wrong it's not about using as
many different verb types as you
possibly can because you have to use the
right verb at the right time
it's not so much about verb types it's
about sentence structures okay
so really you can think about it
grammatical range as are you just
writing simple sentences you know the
cat ate the dog are you just writing
compound sentences
the cat ate the dog and and the cat and
the dog the cat ate the dog
all right that's weird usually doesn't
happen the cat ate the dog and the cat
ate the mouse that's a compound sentence
or what you need to do sorry forgive my
crazy examples there what you need to do
is you need to use here's the technical
term subordinate clauses because you
will get stuck on banned for if you use
a limited range of subordinate clauses
see what happens here is native speakers
will take the IELTS test and they'll
have perfect grammar fabulous vocabulary
range they can structure up the essay
beautifully with coherent sets structure
and flow etc but they'll just be writing
in simple or compound sentences and the
maximum grammar score you can get even
if it's a hundred percent accurate is
for the reason why the IELTS do this is
they want you to show that you have the
ability to write a range of different
sentence types okay so what I mean by
that is yes you need to write complex
sentences using subordination which I'll
show you in a second you should probably
try to slip a question sentence in there
you should use modal verbs must might
could etc you could even put in a
conditional sentence like if if the
students had returned to school early
then the teacher would not have been
angry okay you've got to train all of
those sentence types that you've
probably learned in high school you need
to try and include a range of them so
when you're writing that sentence think
how can I turn this into a more
interesting sentence type okay it's a
bit of a trick to that one here's the
trick if you do not use these words you
cannot get more than four for grammar
and what I mean by these words is the
way that you use them in a sentence
let's take the word although this is a
good example of a subordinate
sentence or subordinate clause okay so
when we do this we do it like this you
know these sentences that are like
although comma
duh that's called subordination because
it's effectively two parts and it's
balancing using that although or you can
say Dada Dada Dada Dada or Dada Dada
Dada so the one that you use most in the
academic writing task 1 is while because
you can say something like the number of
men studying part-time increased while
the number of women decreased ok so
that's a common one but again you don't
want to overuse it so another one that I
like is meanwhile that's that's a nice
way to create a certainly a coordinated
sentence meanwhile while but have a look
at these and pause the video and try and
write some sentences that use these
words because these are the words that
create subordinate clauses and
subordinate clauses are the types of
sentences that raise your grammar score
up to 8 and above I'm sorry it's so
complex here's mine so I've got the word
whether while when and meanwhile so I've
used for well in fact I've used a number
of complex sentences but these ones are
distinctly subordinate types of
sentences there but you need to practice
them it's a good idea go back into that
part of the video of that list and just
start practicing writing those two part
think of them as two-part sentences
where that although or that while or
that whereas or that even though sort of
balances the two parts of the sentence
the word can come at the beginning or in
the middle okay so practice writing a
few of those because without them you
not going to get past seven point five
okay grammatical accuracy we've talked
about a range of course it needs to be
accurate as well so here's the very
important tip for that one before test
day if you haven't already sign up to e
to language comm because we can give you
feedback on your writing and you can
take one-on-one tutorials on
which is a program like Skype with IELTS
experts okay they are well X IELTS
examiner's so they certainly know what's
going on okay and that's the website you
should go to and on test day here's the
last tip because we've finished all of
the criteria make sure you write more
than a hundred and fifty words because
if you do not exceed a hundred and fifty
words your score will immediately
decrease by possibly one to one point
five bands okay in other words don't
write a hundred and forty nine words
this one for example is a hundred and
sixty-eight words that's it cool if you
have any questions by the way if you're
watching this on YouTube live and you
have any questions about what our
packages are or what the website is
you've got to help each leg wage that's
a g.com help e to language calm and send
a ticket and we'll answer any of the
questions you have about the IELTS and
what not
anyway that's all i just wanted to give
you those eight tips I think I missed
one but anyway hold on I think there's
another one uh I think there was tip
number nine which was oh yeah oh yeah
use complex sentences okay let's go
through this I'm sorry I have to edit
this right now in front of you
these are I've just decided it's nine
tips I think I need to make this nine
tips nine tips okay let's go through
those nine tips one more time here we go
so before test a sign up to e to
language comm good idea
on Tuesday spend a minute understanding
the graph don't just start writing and
three describe key features only okay
don't describe boring features describe
key features only plan your structure
before you write think about your
paragraphing structure you know what the
introductory paragraphs going to be you
just rewrite the task I'll sorry the
graph description then in the second
paragraph you write the overview
paragraph but in the third and fourth
and possibly even fifth it depends you
need to think about how you will divide
up your description into meaningful
logical paragraphs number five you need
to consider your sentence before you
write it to make sure that it flows
nicely and if you're repeating a word
you need to think of a synonym right you
don't want the same repetition of words
you can think of a synonym but if you
can't think of a synonym because there's
only one word for that particular word
for example the word children I mean
there's kids but you don't to say that
cuz it's informal so children really is
the only word for children young adults
is not again its imprecise that's a
donkey versus a mule you don't want to
do that so make sure it's precise so
only use words that you know a hundred
percent number eight use complex
sentences as much as possible using
those words I showed you and number nine
because now the sudden we've got nine
tips nine tips make sure you write more
than 150 words they are my friends the
nine key tips to getting a good score in
the IELTS if you do all of those then
you should be well on your way
cool bananas let me answer some
questions and I'll start with the zoom
people okay